# CS-465
Developing the entire website in JavaScript helps maintain a sense of consistency in coding and ease of development. I do not have to worry about how more than one programming language will transfer data between one another as it is mostly JavaScript which is designed to work with HTML and CSS. Express HTML and HandleBars makes the manipulation of HTML docs and routing within the application much more streamlined and straightforward. However, the controllers and routing in Express are a bit more cumbersome compared to a single-page application which had just one route file for defining all the routes within the SPA. The application uses the NoSQL database MongoDB with a schema enforced by the Mongoose library. MongoDB is not as slow/limited in terms of reads/writes compared to SQL, but SQLs need for a data-schema creates a sense of consistency in the database the NoSQL typically does not have. Mongoose bridges the gap and gives us the best of both worlds by forcing documents added to our MongoDB database to have certain fields or else it rejects the documents submitted to it.
JSON, JavaScript Object Notation, is a file format for JavaScript to exchange data between APIs, servers, and web browsers. It is a widely used format and a very easy one to understand, as it is structured in a key:value array style similar to a Python dictionary. JSON enables easy communication across the web between front-end and back-end applications and enables a consistent standard for website development that is legible to the human eye. Code was refactored with HandleBars, HBS, files to simplify how the HTML was processed in the Express application. This made it possible to dynamically represent the HTML documents and update them with minimal editing as it allows the HTML to pull information from the database. With HnadleBars HTML can use FOR loops to iterate through the database and create as many listings as it needs instead of those divs being created manually, and reuse header/footer HTML documents on several pages. This allows the headers and footers to be updated in one location but reflect across the entire website.
Testing can be down in many ways, but there are applications that make it easier such as Postman for testing API calls. API calls like GET calls can be tested in a browser, but Postman makes it easier to test a wider variety of GET/PUT/POST requests and in different ways. Postman can test retrieving data with GET requests or using POST and PUT request to create and update databases and more. Postman also enables developers to test the functionality of the back-end before creating a front-end that introduces even more complexity and potential points of failure in testing. When building any application, it is important to develop it in an iterative manner with frequent testing to ensure everything remains stable and speed up the development process. If multiple functions/methods are introduced all at once, then each one could be at fault which makes it harder to pinpoint errors when debugging.
Full stack development helped me learn how to tie the front-end and back-end together. Particularly how to start up a server and pull data from a database and display it to users after transforming it. Making API calls through GET/POST/PUT requests is much clearer to me now. I feel more confident in building full stack applications, particularly websites, and creating and manipulating persistent data and I have a more wholistic view of developing applications.
